Add a docs section about loading/precomp/ttfx time tuning (#55569)
JuliaLang/julia: doc/src/manual/performance-tips.md

These are external packages, so we will not discuss them in detail here.
Please refer to their respective documentations (especially because they have different behaviors than OpenBLAS with respect to multithreading).

## Execution latency, loading and precompiling time

### Reducing time to first plot etc.

> The first time a julia function is called it will be compiled. The [`@time`](@ref) macro family illustrates this.

Reviewer: "it" and all its callees that can be statically determined, right? May be nitpicking, but that's the reason why some small function can have a super long compile time.

```
julia> foo() = rand(2,2) * rand(2,2)
foo (generic function with 1 method)

julia> @time @eval foo();
  0.252395 seconds (1.12 M allocations: 56.178 MiB, 2.93% gc time, 98.12% compilation time)

julia> @time @eval foo();
  0.000156 seconds (63 allocations: 2.453 KiB)
```

> Note that `@time @eval ...` form is explained in the [`@time`](@ref) documentation.

Reviewer: I would just explain here briefly what it does, otherwise people have to context switch. Maybe "`@time @eval` is better for measuring compilation time because without `@eval`, some compilation may already be done before timing starts."

> When developing a package, it can be helpful to cache this compilation in the package caches that are "precompiled"
> during the `Pkg` installation process or before package load. To precompile package code effectively, it's recommended

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When developing a package, you may be able to improve the experience of your users with *precompilation*,
so that when they use the package the code is already compiled. To precompile package code effectively, it's recommended
```

to use [`PrecompileTools.jl`](https://julialang.github.io/PrecompileTools.jl/stable/) to run a "precompile workload" during
precompilation time that is representative of typical package usage, which will cache the native compiled code into the

> package `pkgimage` cache, greatly reducing "time to first ..." (often referred to as TTFX) for such usage.

Reviewer 2: The X can mean eXecution

### Reducing package loading time

> When keeping the time taken to load the package down is usually helpful.

Reviewer: This sentence is borked :)

General good practice for package developers includes:

1. Balancing the need to depending on packages for functionality vs. their load times, including stdlibs which on newer

>    julia versions may not be loaded already as stdlibs are no longer always included in the default sysimage.

Reviewer: Maybe nitpicking but it's not "stdlibs are no longer always included in the default sysimage", but "some stdlibs are not included in the default sysimage anymore" (otherwise it sounds to me like certain stdlibs might or might not be included under certain circumstances, which isn't true I think)

Reviewer 2: From the phrasing ("here's a consideration for you to keep in mind"), it may not be obvious what the actionable step here is. I assume you're encouraging people to think about whether you really need PkgX? I would phrase each of these as a concrete action: e.g.,
1. Reduce your dependencies to those you really need
2. Avoid use of `__init__` functions unless there is no alternative, especially... (side note: I'm pretty sure one can `@compile_workload __init__()`)
3. Where possible, fix invalidations among your dependencies and from your package code (might want a link to something that defines what invalidations are)

     90.1 ms  SuiteSparse_jll 91.57% compilation time (82% recompilation)
      0.9 ms  Serialization
               ┌ 39.8 ms SparseArrays.CHOLMOD.__init__() 99.47% compilation time (100% recompilation)
    166.9 ms  SparseArrays 23.74% compilation time (100% recompilation)
      0.4 ms  SparseArraysExt
      0.5 ms  TOML
      8.0 ms  Preferences
      0.3 ms  PrecompileTools
      0.2 ms  Reexport
... many deps omitted for example ...
      1.4 ms  Tar
               ┌ 73.8 ms p7zip_jll.__init__() 99.93% compilation time (100% recompilation)
     79.4 ms  p7zip_jll 92.91% compilation time (100% recompilation)
               ┌ 27.7 ms GR.GRPreferences.__init__() 99.77% compilation time (100% recompilation)
     43.0 ms  GR 64.26% compilation time (100% recompilation)
               ┌ 2.1 ms Plots.__init__() 91.80% compilation time (100% recompilation)
    300.9 ms  Plots 0.65% compilation time (100% recompilation)
  1.795602 seconds (3.33 M allocations: 190.153 MiB, 7.91% gc time, 39.45% compilation time: 97% of which was recompilation)

```

Notice that in this example there are multiple packages loaded, some with `__init__()` functions, some of which cause

> compilation of which some is recompilation.

Reviewer 2: I would try to link these concretely with your 3 factors. For example, it may not be obvious to everyone that "recompilation" is tied in some way to "invalidation."

This report gives a good opportunity to review whether the cost of dependency load time is worth the functionality it brings.
Also the `Pkg` utility `why` can be used to report why a an indirect dependency exists.

```
(CustomPackage) pkg> why FFMPEG_jll
  Plots → FFMPEG → FFMPEG_jll
  Plots → GR → GR_jll → FFMPEG_jll
```

or to see the indirect dependencies that a package brings in, you can `pkg> rm` the package, see the deps that are removed
from the manifest, then revert the change with `pkg> undo`.

If loading time is dominated by slow `__init__()` methods having compilation, one verbose way to identify what is being

> compiled is to use the julia args `--trace-compile=stderr --trace-compile-timing` which will report a [`precompile`](@ref)

Reviewer 3: Where does --trace-compile-timing come from? I don't see it in https://docs.julialang.org/en/v1/manual/command-line-interface/

Author: Those are the v1.10 docs https://docs.julialang.org/en/v1.12-dev/manual/command-line-interface/#command-line-interface

statement each time a method is compiled, along with how long compilation took. For instance, the full setup would be:

```
$ julia --startup-file=no --trace-compile=stderr --trace-compile-timing
julia> @time @time_imports using CustomPackage
...
```

Note the `--startup-file=no` which helps isolate the test from packages you may have in your `startup.jl`.

More analysis of the reasons for recompilation can be achieved with the
[`SnoopCompile`](https://github.com/timholy/SnoopCompile.jl) package.

### Reducing precompilation time

If package precompilation is taking a long time, one option is to set the following internal and then precompile.
```
julia> Base.PRECOMPILE_TRACE_COMPILE[] = "stderr"

pkg> precompile
```

This has the effect of setting `--trace-compile=stderr --trace-compile-timing` in the precompilation processes themselves,
so will show which methods are precompiled and how long they took to precompile.

> There are also profiling options such as [using the external profiler Tracy to profile the precompilation process](@ref Profiling-package-precompilation-with-Tracy).

Reviewer 2: May also be worth emphasizing a point in the PrecompileTools docs that is frequently missed, that you can turn it off for local development.

```
(CustomPackage) pkg> why FFMPEG_jll
  Plots → FFMPEG → FFMPEG_jll
  Plots → GR → GR_jll → FFMPEG_jll
```

or to see the indirect dependencies that a package brings in, you can `pkg> rm` the package, see the deps that are removed
from the manifest, then revert the change with `pkg> undo`.

If loading time is dominated by slow `__init__()` methods having compilation, one verbose way to identify what is being
compiled is to use the julia args `--trace-compile=stderr --trace-compile-timing` which will report a [`precompile`](@ref)
statement each time a method is compiled, along with how long compilation took. For instance, the full setup would be:

```
$ julia --startup-file=no --trace-compile=stderr --trace-compile-timing
julia> @time @time_imports using CustomPackage
...
```

Note the `--startup-file=no` which helps isolate the test from packages you may have in your `startup.jl`.

More analysis of the reasons for recompilation can be achieved with the
[`SnoopCompile`](https://github.com/timholy/SnoopCompile.jl) package.

### Reducing precompilation time

If package precompilation is taking a long time, one option is to set the following internal and then precompile.
```

> julia> Base.PRECOMPILE_TRACE_COMPILE[] = "stderr"

Reviewer 4: FWIW, this is not really a public thing

Author: Ok. Is there something else we can suggest people use here?

These are external packages, so we will not discuss them in detail here.
Please refer to their respective documentations (especially because they have different behaviors than OpenBLAS with respect to multithreading).

## Execution latency, package loading and package precompiling time

### Reducing time to first plot etc.

The first time a julia method is called it (and any methods it calls, or ones that can be statically determined) will be
compiled. The [`@time`](@ref) macro family illustrates this.

```
julia> foo() = rand(2,2) * rand(2,2)
foo (generic function with 1 method)

julia> @time @eval foo();
  0.252395 seconds (1.12 M allocations: 56.178 MiB, 2.93% gc time, 98.12% compilation time)

julia> @time @eval foo();
  0.000156 seconds (63 allocations: 2.453 KiB)
```

Note that `@time @eval` is better for measuring compilation time because without [@eval](@ref), some compilation may
already be done before timing starts.

> When developing a package, you may be able to improve the experience of your users with *precompilation*,
> so that when they use the package the code they use is already compiled. To precompile package code effectively, it's

Reviewer 5: Tiny grammar nit. No comma before the "so" as the following clause is dependent.
```suggestion
When developing a package, you may be able to improve the experience of your users with *precompilation*
so that when they use the package, the code they use is already compiled. To precompile package code effectively, it's
```

recommended to use [`PrecompileTools.jl`](https://julialang.github.io/PrecompileTools.jl/stable/) to run a
"precompile workload" during precompilation time that is representative of typical package usage, which will cache the
native compiled code into the package `pkgimage` cache, greatly reducing "time to first execution" (often referred to as
TTFX) for such usage.

Note that [`PrecompileTools.jl`](https://julialang.github.io/PrecompileTools.jl/stable/) workloads can be
disabled and sometimes configured via Preferences if you do not want to spend the extra time precompiling, which
may be the case during development of a package.

### Reducing package loading time

Keeping the time taken to load the package down is usually helpful.
General good practice for package developers includes:

> 1. Reduce your dependencies to those you really need.
> 2. Consider organizing any extended package functionality that is dependent on particular dependencies into
>    [package extensions](@ref) that can serve optional functionality depending on whether the user's environment (or the
>    package depending on yours) has those particular dependencies.

Reviewer 2: In a sense the second point is an elaboration of the first. How about

```suggestion
1. Reduce your dependencies to those you really need. Consider using [package extensions](@ref) to support interoperability with other packages without bloating your essential dependencies.
```
